---
layout: post
title: My guide to Vue.
---
There must be a root Vue instance that is mounted on a div. Then there must be Vue instances that are mounted automatically when there are certain tags. This is called components.

I can mount root Vue instances onto DOM elements,  in two ways.

The first way is:

    const vm = new Vue({
	    el: '#app'
	})

This automatically mounts the Vue instance `vm` onto a DOM element with id 'app' after creating `vm`

The second way is:

    const vm = new Vue({...}).$mount('#app')

This mounts the instance onto a DOM element with id 'app' after creating vm as well. In this case, however, you can seperate the two process like this:

    const vm = new Vue({...})
    vm.$mount('#app')

In the first line of code, vm is instantiated without a `el` property. Therefore it is in an *unmounted* state, without an associated DOM element.
This will come to good use when I am doing hydration for Server side rendered pages.

When using root Vue instances, I can just write `new Vue({...}).$mount('#app')`. However, the reason that I am using `const vm` is to add properties to the object after its instantiation.

So then, what is the different between the codeblock above and this:

	new Vue({...})
	vm.$mount('#app')

vm.$mount does two things: it adds `el` property to vm, and it also returns the new `vm` instance. Therefore, I can use any of the above, as you like.

## Hoisting?
Why does hoisting not work with routers for vue?
[Hoisting in Modern JavaScript — let, const, and var | by Sukhjinder Arora | Bits and Pieces (bitsrc.io)](https://blog.bitsrc.io/hoisting-in-modern-javascript-let-const-and-var-b290405adfda)

## Hydration
`data-server-rendered` attribute.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTEyODYxNTIyLDg0OTE0NTAzMiwtOTgwMz
Y2NzkxLDE0NTQ4MjQxNDEsMTA1MjI0ODY3OSwtMTYwNTkyNDg4
N119
-->