---
layout: post
title: Cryptography 101
---
# Private-Key Encryption (Symmetric-key setting)
I have a blackbox that encrypts a data when given a data and a key. It can also decrypt an encryption when given a encryption and the key used to encrypt.

I could keep the methods used in the box private or public. Public methods tend to be stronger as they undergo more scrutiny.

The key must obviously stay private.

If an eavesdropper tries to decrypt the ciphertext, then he's first choice will be to  run the decryption method on all possible keys. (exhaustive search attack) If there are more than a sufficient amount of possible keys, this method won't work. (sufficient key-space principle)

## Known-plaintext attack
The only reason I would want to keep the methods private is: if an hacker knows the plaintext and the ciphertext and the method then he can get rather easily get the private key. This is called a known-plaintext attack. However, pretty much all encryption algorithms today are not susceptible to this attack. Therefore, there is no point in keeping the methods secret.

Now that the key is the only thing not public, I will

# Cryptographic Hashing
What if I make a blackbox that includes a method to encrypt the data, but not decrypt the data?

I want neither the hacker nor I be able to decrypt the ciphertext. This is called cryptographic hashing. It seems like magic, but is is possible.

Hashing can be made so that it is easily decryptable (where I can list possible plaintexts for a hash), but with enough effort, it can be made so that it is impossible to list possible plaintexts at the first place. So from now on I will only consider irreversible cryptographic hash functions.

This encryption method doesn't seem very different from what I have discussed above. The story completely changes however when I say I want to make the number of total possible ciphertexts less than the total number of possible plaintexts.

This introduces a big problem.

Due to the pigeonhole principle, every hashing function has a collision. For example, consider a case where a hacker got the hash for a password. (It is obviously possible to insert another password and still get authenticated, if the fake password has the same hash as the real password.) If the hacker starts a brute force attack to get the plaintext, he shouldn't be able to easily find a plaintext that has that hash. This is called **Pre-image resistance**.

There are cases where the hacker has a hash and the plaintext. He wants to get another plaintext that has the same hash. This is called **Second pre-image resistance**.

But now I am going to talk about Collision resistance, which is simply the hacker trying to find two plaintexts that have the same input. It is important for digital signatures.
Borrowing [Tiwari](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&ved=2ahUKEwin1aOgw6DtAhUTFogKHa6MAy4QFjABegQIAxAC&url=https://hrcak.srce.hr/file/281168#:~:text=The%2520properties%2520of%2520second%2520preimage,find%2520any%2520two%2520messages%2520that&usg=AOvVaw0AEYI8Fs9KwHp0xOsupZkk)'s words:

> Collision resistance is important for digital signatures. The properties of second preimage resistance and collision resistance may seem similar but the difference is that in the case of second preimage resistance, the attacker is given a message to start with, but for collision resistance no message is given; it is simply up to the attacker to find any two messages that yield the same hash value.

In this case, this situation can be thought of as a context where the hacker already knows the plaintext, and want to get another plaintext that has the same hash.

This is the context that I have to mathematically ponder upon.
How do I make sure that it is really hard for hackers to find a collision for a particular plaintext? We define the word "Collision resistant" for this, mathematically.

## Collision resistant

## Merkle-Damgard Transform

# Secure password
Use password managing apps like 1password in order to keep secure passwords and not get attacked by hackers.

# Other
* Do not use C's rand() function in the stdlib.h library for cryptographic uses.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMjAyMDM3NjQ2LC0xMzc2MDIyMzYxLC00MD
ExMzY0MDQsLTcxOTEyMzUxMCwtMTcyODEwODE2Miw0OTg2NzEw
NjQsMTkwODE5NjM0OCwxMDc2MTUxODgxLDY3MTE1NjM4MSwtMT
A3NzAxMDUyOSwtMTg3Mjk0Mjk2MSwtMTYxNzc4ODQ5MCwtMTAw
NzYxMjgxMywxNzY3OTEwMTE1LDEzMzQ0NzYyMjEsLTIwMTM2MD
M4OTIsNTM2OTk4Mzg0XX0=
-->