---
layout: post
title: CSS
---
The thing about CSS is that people don't learn it properly. Most of the time CSS is taught in a HTML/CSS tutorial or an HTML/CSS/Javascript tutorial. It is not taught in a tutorial teaching CSS only. I think this makes people care less about CSS when they are learning web development.
Not learning CSS properly means you cannot add design to your website proficiently. And CSS can be very tricky most of the time. So I think it is important to learn CSS in order to be a full-stack web developer. It doesn't even take that much time.

# line-height
The line-height is different from the height property. Yet when a element has a single line of text only, with height undefined, line-height is the height of the element.

Let's look at different examples where line-height works differently

## text inside div

Line height works whenever there is text.
html

    <div class="asdf">
	    hello world
    </div>
css

    .asdf {
	    font-size: 15px;
	    line-height: 1;
	}

This makes div.asdf's height 15px. Very simple.
    

## text inside span inside div
span is just used to style certain parts of a text.



## text inside flexbox
Now things get a little bit more complicated

# font
## font-family
I honestly don’t like the term “font-family” because it differs from what people would intuitively think it is. Normally we call font-family just font or font type in colloquial life. So I think font-type is a better name. Anyway I was confused on what font-family all the fucking time because of its name.

# WTF
Form elements do not inherit by default: button, input, select, textarea.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTU4ODc0ODQyLDc2NDY0NDM4MiwtOTIwOD
M3NDczXX0=
-->